@article Instruments
@tool-summary

The --read option can be either a network address or a file name. If it contains
colon (':') character then it is treated as a network address in a form "host:port",
otherwise it is treated as a file name. This option can be specified several times
in order to read and concatenate several data sources. All sources are loaded in
the order they are listed and concatenated into single data set.

The tool can read several input formats and convert them into IPF format.
The tool analyses file name to decide what input format is used.
@br;If file name contains ".xml" then it is considered to be OCC FIXML file.
@br;If file name contains "mo.dat" then it is considered to be CME MO.dat file.
@br;Otherwise file is considered to be IPF format file.

The tool supports file compression formats "zip" and "gzip" both for reading and writing.
The tool analyses file name to decide what compression format is used.
@br;If file name ends with ".zip" then "zip" format will be used.
@br;If file name ends with ".gz" then "gzip" format will be used.
@br;Otherwise no compression will be used.

The --transform option can be either a direct transform program, an URL or a file name
pointing to one. The tool treats option as direct one if it contains semicolon
(';') character, otherwise option is treated as an URL or file name depending on format.
This option can be specified several times in order to apply several separate transforms.
All transforms are executed one after another in the order they are listed.

Examples:

	Instruments -r thinkorswimseries_2008-05-19.xml.zip -t occ.transform -c -w occ_2008-05-19.ipf.zip
@br;This will read zipped OCC FIXML file "thinkorswimseries_2008-05-19.xml.zip",
transform it according to "occ.transform" program, run data checks and
write zipped instruments to "occ_2008-05-19.ipf.zip" file.

	Instruments -r mo.dat.zip -t cme.transform -w cme_2008-05-19.ipf.zip
@br;This will read zipped CME MO.dat file "mo.dat.zip", transform it according to
"cme.transform" program and write zipped instruments to "cme_2008-05-19.ipf.zip" file.

	Instruments -r data.ipf.zip -t 'if (UNDERLYING != "SPX") delete();' -w SPX.ipf
@br;This will read zipped IPF file "data.ipf.zip", transform it according to
specified program (deleting all instruments except "SPX" options) and write
uncompressed instruments to "SPX.ipf" file.

	Instruments -r main.ipf.zip -r missed.ipf -t cusip.transform -t sic.transform -m -w complete.ipf
@br;This will read zipped IPF file "main.ipf.zip" and uncompressed IPF file "missed.ipf",
concatenate them into single list, transform it according to both specified programs
(first "cusip.transform" and then "sic.transform"), merge duplicate entries by symbol
and finally write uncompressed instruments to IPF file "complete.ipf".
