@article NetTest
@tool-summary

This tool is used to test network throughput. It is quite similar to
TestThroughput tool from qd.sample, but it provides larger functionality
in network testing and is integrated into com.devexperts.tools.Tools framework.

The NetTest tool can be run in one of two modes: producer-side and
consumer-side. In each mode it creates one or several collectors and
connects them to specified address via MessageConnector.

When using NetTest as producer-side special generator thread is created
for every collector and it feeds the collector with randomly-generated
'Quote' records (and collector then gives them outside via connector). When using
as consumer-side each collector receives records from connector.

In both cases the number of generated/received records is counted
and throughput in records per second is logged to a console.

By default one connection (entity) from each side is created,
but their number can be changed using --connections option. A separate
collector is created for each entity.

Each producing entity continuously generates random records with symbols from
preliminarily generated symbols list. Each consumer entity is subscribed to some
records. Total number of symbols is defined by --symbols option (100000 by default).
If the second part of --symbols option is omitted then each entity will
use all symbols from the list. Otherwise one can define average number of
symbols (randomly selected from global symbol list) interesting per one
entity, i.e. number of symbols produced by single producer entity or number
of symbols which was single consumer entity subscribed to (see examples below).

The frequency of dumping throughput to a screen can be set using --stat option
(every 10 seconds by default).

Examples:

To start producer side on some server 'samplehost' at port 5555 one can run:
	NetTest p :5555
@br;It will randomly generate records about 100000 random symbols.

Then one can run consumer side on some other machine:
	nettest c samplehost:5555 -C 100 -S 100000/100
@br;This will create 100 connections. Each of them will subscribe to 'Quote'
record about roughly 100 symbols of 100000 randomly generated. Now one can
track the number of records received by these connections per second.

Note, that it is possible to connect multiple producers and multiple consumers with
each other via multiplexor. To do this one can start multiplexor on some server
'samplehost' using scheme SampleScheme:
	Multiplexor com.devexperts.qd.sample.SampleScheme :5555 :6666 --collector ticker

Then it is possible to run consumers and producers:
	NetTest p samplehost:5555 -C 10 -S 10000/1000
    NetTest c samplehost:6666 -C 10 -S 10000/1000
